# Assessment-2_Library-Management-System







User Guide 




November 2022
Version 1.00






Yoobee Colleges NZ 2202 DSD FT, Shaun Cooper and Rye George
 
Document Revisions

Date	Version Number	Document Changes
17/11/2022	0.1	Initial Draft
17/11/2022	0.2	Updated Draft
17/11/2022	0.3	Final Draft
18/11/2022	1.00	Deployment Version - Final
		
		
		
		
		

 

Table of Contents
1	Introduction	4
1.1	Scope and Purpose	4
1.2	Process Overview	4
2	Process Workflows	6
2.1	Admin - Login	6
2.2	Admin - Add New Book	7
2.3	Admin - Modify Catalogue	9
2.4	Admin - Add New Member	11
2.5	Admin - Modify Member	12
2.6	Admin - Review Overdue Books	14
2.7	Member – Register	17
2.8	Member – Login	18
2.9	Member – View Catalogue	19
2.10	Member – Order Book	20
2.11	Member – View Personal Orders	22
3	Appendices	24
3.1	Qt Version Control	24
3.2	Copyright	24
4	References	24

 
1	Introduction 
1.1	Scope and Purpose
The Library Management System is designed to improve access to, and efficiency of, library services for employees and members.

The purpose of this user guide is to provide a description of the key features and instructions on how to use them effectively.
This document will also provide some information about errors that may occur and how to fix them.

1.2	Process Overview 
For employees, the following features will be managed by the software:
1.	Login
2.	Add new book
3.	Modify catalogue
4.	Add new member
5.	Modify members
6.	Review overdue books

For members, the following features will be managed by the software:
7.	Register
8.	Login
9.	View catalogue
10.	Order book
11.	View personal orders

These processes will be explained in detail in the following pages.

The image on the following page depicts a basic use case diagram of the application.
Figure 1 Use Case Diagram
2	    Process Workflows
2.1	Admin - Login

Brief Description
The user logs into the system.
Initial Step-By-Step Description
Before this use case can be initiated, the User must start the system. 
1.	The user enters their username.
2.	The user enters their password.
 
Figure 2 Login fields
3.	The system verifies the user’s credentials.
4.	If user’s credentials are not verified, the system displays login error and returns to step 2.
 
Figure 3 Login error message
5.	The system displays the admin ‘home screen’.
 WARNING: The ‘users.csv’ file cannot be open by any other application at the time of running this process.
NOTE: The ‘Username’ field is not case sensitive for validation. The ‘Password’ field is case sensitive for validation.

 
2.2	Admin - Add New Book

Brief Description
Administrators can add new books to the system.
Initial Step-By-Step Description
An administrator is viewing the ‘home screen’.
 
Figure 4 Admin home screen
1.	User is logged in as an administrator.
2.	User clicks the ‘Add New Book’ button.
  Figure 5 ‘Add New Book’ button
3.	User enters the details of the new book.
 
Figure 5 Part of Add New Book screen
4.	The Serial Number is generated by the system automatically and displayed next to the ‘Serial Number:’ label. 
5.	User clicks the ‘submit’ button.
 
Figure 6 Add New Book screen

6.	 User clicks the ‘submit’ button
7.	 The system checks if the book is added successfully and displays a message
  
Figure 7 Book added successfully message box


WARNING: The ‘books.csv’ file cannot be open by any other application at the time of running this process.


2.3	Admin - Modify Catalogue

Brief Description
Administrators can modify or update the details of a book in the catalogue.
Initial Step-By-Step Description
The user must know the details of the book they want to modify.
1.	User is logged in as an administrator. 
2.	User selects to modify catalogue.
 
Figure 8 ‘Modify Catalogue’ button on the Admin Home screen
3.	Users find the book they want to modify.
4.	User clicks the edit button next to that book.
 
Figure 9 Admin Catalogue screen
5.	User reviews the current details.
6.	User enters the new details.
7.	User selects the ‘submit’ button.
 
Figure 10 Part of the Edit Book screen

WARNING: The ‘books.csv’ file cannot be open by any other application at the time of running this process.





2.4	Admin - Add New Member

Brief Description
Administrators can add new members to the library management system.
Initial Step-By-Step Description
The new member must have filled out a ‘member form’ (hard copy).
1.	User is logged in as an administrator 
2.	User clicks the ‘Add New Member’ button
 
Figure 11 ‘Add New Member’ button
3.	User enters the details of the new member
4.	The system populates the ‘ID Number’ automatically
5.	User clicks the ‘submit’ button
6.	If the member is added successfully, the system confirms in a message box
 
Figure 12 Add New Member screen after member added successfully

WARNING: The ‘books.csv’ file cannot be open by any other application at the time of running this process.

2.5	Admin - Modify Member

Brief Description
Administrators can modify the details of a member.
Initial Step-By-Step Description
The user must currently be viewing the ‘members list’ screen.
1.	User is logged in as an administrator 
2.	User clicks the ‘Modify Member’ button
 
Figure 13 Add New Member screen after
3.	All members are displayed in the table
 
Figure 14 Table on Edit Member screen
4.	Double click any column in the row relating to the member you want to modify
5.	The details of the selected user will automatically populate the below fields
 
Figure 15 Part of Edit Member screen

6.	User can edit the Email, First Name and Last Name in the fields populated under the Enter New Details label
7.	User clicks the ‘submit’ button
8.	If the information is updated successfully, the system prompts with a message box.
 
Figure 16 Message box on the Edit Member screen

WARNING: The ‘users.csv’ file cannot be open by any other application at the time of running this process.
NOTE: This process runs a temporary database file ‘users.db’ which interacts with the application UI and the ‘users.csv’ file. For the most accurate user information, please refer to the ‘users.csv’ file.


2.6	Admin - Review Overdue Books

Brief Description
Administrators can review all books which are overdue.
Initial Step-By-Step Description
The user must run the application for the system to generate the most up to date information for overdue books.
1.	The user must have access to the application’s build folder
2.	When the application first runs, the system checks the ‘orders.csv’ file for the return dates of all books.
 
Figure 17 Image from ‘oders.csv’ file
3.	If the return dates are at least one day older than the current system time, then the system copies the book’s details into the ‘overdue.csv’ file.
4.	Once the user has run the application, open the overdue.csv file to review the overdue books.
 
Figure 18 Image from ‘overdue.csv’ file

WARNING: The ‘orders.csv’ and the ‘overdue.csv’ file cannot be open by any other application at the time of running this process.
CAUTION: Manipualting the .csv files outside of the application will likely cause functionality issues. Please avoid saving any changes when reviewing the files.

 
2.7	Member – Register

Brief Description
Members can register for an account.
Initial Step-By-Step Description
The user must run the application.
1.	If the user does not have an account, they can enter their details on the left side of the login screen.
 
Figure 19 Login screen
2.	 User clicks the Register button
3.	 If the registration is successful, a message box notifies the user.
4.	The system copies the registered email address and populates it in the Username field to assist logging in.
 
Figure 20 Login screen Message Box

WARNING: The ‘users.csv’ file cannot be open by any other application at the time of running this process.
NOTE: The ‘Email’ field is not case sensitive. The ‘Password’ field is case sensitive.


2.8	Member – Login
Refer to section 2.1 for assistance logging in.



2.9	Member – View Catalogue

Brief Description
The members can browse the library catalogue.
Initial Step-By-Step Description
The member must be logged into the system and on the home screen.
1.	The user clicks the ‘View Catalogue’ button
 
Figure 21 ‘View Catalogue’ button on Member Home screen

2.	The system displays the Member Catalogue screen.
 
Figure 22 Member Catalogue screen

WARNING: The ‘books.csv’ file cannot be open by any other application at the time of running this process.


2.10	Member – Order Book

Brief Description
The members can order books from the catalogue.
Initial Step-By-Step Description
The user must be viewing the catalogue.
1.	The user clicks the cover image or book details of the book they want to order
2.	To assist with finding a specific book, the user can enter key words of the book title in the search bar and click search.
 
Figure 23 Part of the Member Catalogue screen
3.	The user clicks the ‘Order’ button underneath the book cover image
4.	If the user has already ordered the book, a message box will display a message and the system rejects the order.
 
Figure 24 Message Box from the Order Book screen
5.	If the user is able to order the book, a different message box displays a message and the book is ordered successfully.

 
Figure 25 Another Message Box from the Order Book screen

WARNING: The ‘books.csv’ file cannot be open by any other application at the time of running this process.


2.11	Member – View Personal Orders

Brief Description
The members can view the books they have currently ordered.
Initial Step-By-Step Description
The user must be viewing the home screen.
1.	The user clicks the ‘Your Items’ button
 
Figure 26 ‘Your Items’ button
2.	The system displays all the currently loaned books in the Currently Loaned column
3.	The system displays all the books due within 3 days, in the Due Soon column.
4.	The system displays the requested books in the Loan Requests column
5.	The system displays all the overdue books in the Overdue column.
 
Figure 27 Your Items screen

WARNING: The ‘books.csv’ file cannot be open by any other application at the time of running this process.




If you encounter issues not addressed by this user guide, please contact your account manager for additional support.
 
3	Appendices

3.1	Qt Version Control
For the successful use of this application, you must use Qt version 6_3_2MSVC2019_64bit.
The use of any other versions may result in the application being corrupted.

3.2	Copyright
This document was produced using a template provided by: Copyright INKtopia Limited | All Right reserved. (INKtopia Limited, 2022)

4	References
INKtopia Limited. (2022). INKtopia.com.














